example/miniobs/README.rst, before:

Self-contained Test Mini-Observatory
====================================

This example demonstrates operation of a single-host OCS.  The
Observatory consists of the 2 core agents (HostMaster and
RegistryAgent), a data aggregation agent (AggregatorAgent), and a
custom data producer defined here (FakeDataAgent).

The site_config file, ``default.yaml``, demonstrates a few practices
that are not generally a good idea in any kind of "production" setup.
In particular:

- The list of Agents is defined under hostname ``localhost``.  This is
  a wildcard that can only work in a single-host system.
- ``log-dir``, ``agent-paths``, and the ``crossbar:config-dir`` are
  all specified as relative paths.  Behavior will be unpredictable if
  Agents are not all invoked in the same working directory.

The steps below are also grouped into targets in a ``Makefile`` in
this directory.


**0. Prior to any session**

This example assumes that the ``ocs`` python module can be imported,
and that the ``ocsbow`` binary is in the binary path.  Both of these
should be true if you installed the package to a local or system level
folder.

This example is configured so that you can ``cd`` directly to the
example directory (where this README is located) and run commands from
there.  However, you still need to tell OCS to refer to the local
configuration file, ``default.yaml``.  The recommended approach is to
temporarily define the environment variable:

.. code-block:: shell

   export OCS_CONFIG_DIR=`pwd`

An alternative is to pass ``--site-file=default.yaml`` to *every*
invocation of ocsbow, as well as to the ``run_acq.py`` script.


**1. First-time set-up**

These setup commands create the required directory structure and a
configuration file for crossbar.

.. code-block:: shell

   mkdir dot_crossbar
   mkdir logs
   mkdir data

   ocsbow crossbar generate_config > dot_crosssbar/config.json


**2. Bringing up the system**

These commands will start up the crossbar server, the HostMaster, and
then the other Agents defined in default.yaml.  After ``launch`` the
HostMaster agent will log to the file ``logs/observatory.hm1.log``.
After ``start``, the other agents will log to other files in that
directory.

.. code-block:: shell

   ocsbow crossbar start
   ocsbow launch
   ocsbow start

**3. Run an acquisition, saving data to data/**

The data producer and aggregator agents start up in an idle state.
The run_acq.py script starts the right agent Operations to obtain a 30
second acquisition.

.. code-block:: shell

   python run_acq.py

**4. Bringing down the system**

These ocsbow commands undo the ones from step 2, in reverse order.

.. code-block:: shell

   ocsbow stop
   ocsbow unlaunch
   ocsbow crossbar stop

Commit message:

Add "startup" options to OCSAgent.register_{task,process}
Update aggregator_agent.py and example/miniobs to use this new startup
interface.

example/miniobs/README.rst, after:

Self-contained Test Mini-Observatory
====================================

This example demonstrates operation of a single-host OCS.  The
Observatory consists of the 2 core agents (HostMaster and
RegistryAgent), a data aggregation agent (AggregatorAgent), and a
custom data producer defined here (FakeDataAgent).

The site_config file, ``default.yaml``, demonstrates a few practices
that are not generally a good idea in any kind of "production" setup.
In particular:

- The list of Agents is defined under hostname ``localhost``.  This is
  a wildcard that can only work in a single-host system.
- ``log-dir``, ``agent-paths``, and the ``crossbar:config-dir`` are
  all specified as relative paths.  Behavior will be unpredictable if
  Agents are not all invoked in the same working directory.

The steps below are also grouped into targets in a ``Makefile`` in
this directory.


**0. Prior to any session**

This example assumes that the ``ocs`` python module can be imported,
and that the ``ocsbow`` binary is in the binary path.  Both of these
should be true if you installed the package to a local or system level
folder.

This example is configured so that you can ``cd`` directly to the
example directory (where this README is located) and run commands from
there.  However, you still need to tell OCS to refer to the local
configuration file, ``default.yaml``.  The recommended approach is to
temporarily define the environment variable:

.. code-block:: shell

   export OCS_CONFIG_DIR=`pwd`

An alternative is to pass ``--site-file=default.yaml`` to *every*
invocation of ocsbow, as well as to the ``run_acq.py`` script.


**1. First-time set-up**

These setup commands create the required directory structure and a
configuration file for crossbar.

.. code-block:: shell

   mkdir dot_crossbar
   mkdir logs
   mkdir data

   ocsbow crossbar generate_config > dot_crosssbar/config.json


**2. Bringing up the system**

These commands will start up the crossbar server, the HostMaster, and
then the other Agents defined in default.yaml.  After ``launch`` the
HostMaster agent will log to the file ``logs/observatory.hm1.log``.
After ``start``, the other agents will log to other files in that
directory.

.. code-block:: shell

   ocsbow crossbar start
   ocsbow launch
   ocsbow start

**3. Run an acquisition, saving data to data/**

The aggregator will begin writing files automatically on startup.  The
data producer will not generate and send data to the aggregator until
the data production Process is explicitly told to do so.  The script
run_acq.py commands the start of a data production operation, and then
stops it 30 seconds later.  Note that if you interrupt the run_acq.py
script, the agent will keep generating data in the background, and it
will keep being written to disk.  If that happens, run "ocsbow stop"
to terminate all agents.

.. code-block:: shell

   python run_acq.py

**4. Bringing down the system**

These ocsbow commands undo the ones from step 2, in reverse order.

.. code-block:: shell

   ocsbow stop
   ocsbow unlaunch
   ocsbow crossbar stop
