.. highlight:: rst

.. _clients:

Clients
=======
Multi-Agent interactions are orchestrated by OCS Clients. Clients can be
written in any language supported by crossbar, however most commonly these will
be written in Python or Javascript. This page focuses on writing an OCS Client
in Python.

There are two ways to write a Python OCS Client, one (we'll call it a Basic
Client) uses `ocs.client_t`, the other (called a Matched Client) uses
`ocs.matched_client`. Generally, a Matched Client is going to be easier to
write (and is the newer of the two methods), but for completeness we document
both methods.

The clients differ in how they communicate with the crossbar server. Writers of
Basic Clients need to consider their asynchronous paradigm.

Basic Clients
-------------
We write a basic Client with the `ocs.client_t` module. Typically we will
define a function and then run it using `ocs.client_t.run_control_script2`. The
general form of our Client will be something like::

    import ocs 
    from ocs import client_t, site_config
    
    def my_client_function(app, pargs):
        # Definition and use of Agent Tasks + Processes
        pass
    
    if __name__ == '__main__':
        parser = site_config.add_arguments()
        parser.add_argument('--target', default="thermo1")
        client_t.run_control_script2(my_client_function, parser=parser)

The part we need to write is the body of ``my_client_function``.

To start, each Agent action needs to be defined in a Client before being used.
To do so we need to know what address to reach our Agent at::

    def my_client_function(app, pargs):
        root = 'observatory'

        # Register addresses and operations
        therm_instance = pargs.target
        therm_address = '{}.{}'.format(root, therm_instance)
        therm_ops = { 
            'init': client_t.TaskClient(app, therm_address, 'init_lakeshore'),
            'acq': client_t.ProcessClient(app, therm_address, 'acq')
        }   

In this codeblock we define the root of our address space, which by default is
'observatory'. We combine this along with the target defined in
``pargs.target`` to form our address. This target will be the Agent's
"instance-id". We're considering a thermometry control system (either the
Lakeshore 240 or Lakeshore 372) in this example, hence the prefix 'therm'.

We define a dictionary, ``therm_ops``, with each of our Agent Tasks and
Processes, in this case, just one of each. The final arguement in both
``client_t.TaskClient`` and ``client_t.ProcessClient`` must match the Task and
Process names registered by the Agent. In this case "init_lakeshore" sets up
the communication with the Lakeshore device, and "acq" begins data acquisition.

To interact with a task we use the keywords "start", "wait", "status", "abort",
and "stop". And since basic Clients run asynchronously we need to use the
Python keyword "yield"::

    yield therm_ops['init'].start()
    yield therm_ops['init'].wait()
    yield client_t.dsleep(.05)

This will start the "init_lakeshore" task, then wait 0.05 seconds.

.. warning::
    Note the use of ``client_t.dsleep()``, not the common ``time.sleep()``.
    ``time.sleep()`` will "block", disrupting our asynchronus paradigm. For
    more information on this and other subtleties to asynchronus programming, see
    the `autobahn Documentation
    <https://autobahn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/asynchronous-programming.html>`_.

When calling a Process, we just use "start"::

    print("Starting Data Acquisition")
    yield therm_ops['acq'].start()

This will continue running until we command it to stop. We will do so in the
Matched Client example. So our full Basic Client looks like::

    import ocs 
    from ocs import client_t, site_config
    
    def my_client_function(app, pargs):
        root = 'observatory'

        # Register addresses and operations
        therm_instance = pargs.target
        therm_address = '{}.{}'.format(root, therm_instance)
        therm_ops = { 
            'init': client_t.TaskClient(app, therm_address, 'init_lakeshore'),
            'acq': client_t.ProcessClient(app, therm_address, 'acq')
        }

        yield therm_ops['init'].start()
        yield therm_ops['init'].wait()
        yield client_t.dsleep(.05)

        print("Starting Data Acquisition")
        yield therm_ops['acq'].start()

    
    if __name__ == '__main__':
        parser = site_config.add_arguments()
        parser.add_argument('--target', default="thermo1")
        client_t.run_control_script2(my_client_function, parser=parser)


Matched Clients
---------------
A Matched Client performs the definition of Agent tasks and processes within
the Client for us, a great convenience when our Agents have many Tasks and
Processes registered. The Matched Client also makes its calls over http and
avoids some of the potentially unfamiliar use of ``yield``.

An example MatchedClient would look like this::

    from ocs.matched_client import MatchedClient
    
    therm_client = MatchedClient('thermo1', args=[])

We then have access to any Task and Process defined by the 'thermo1' Agent with
the syntax "client name"."task/process name"."command". For example, to stop
data acquisition as started by the above Basic Client::

    therm_client.acq.stop()

So our full MatchedClient to stop a running acquisition process on "thermo1" is
just three lines::

    from ocs.matched_client import MatchedClient
    
    therm_client = MatchedClient('thermo1', args=[])
    therm_client.acq.stop()

For comparison to the Basic Client, an equivalent Matched Client to the Basic
Client example would be::

    import time
    from ocs.matched_client import MatchedClient
    
    therm_client = MatchedClient('thermo1', args=[])
    therm_client.init.start()
    therm_client.init.wait()
    time.sleep(.05)

    therm_client.acq.start()

Parameters can be passed to Task/Process calls using the familiar Python
parameter expansion syntax::

    import time
    from ocs.matched_client import MatchedClient
    
    therm_client = MatchedClient('thermo1', args=[])
    params = {'auto_acquire': True}
    therm_client.init.start(**params)
    therm_client.init.wait()
    time.sleep(.05)
