.. _ocs_plugins:

Writing Plugins
===============

OCS supports adding external Agents via a plugin system. The underlying
mechanism uses the package metadata, as described in the `PyPA Documentation
<https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/creating-and-discovering-plugins/#using-package-metadata>`_.
Making a package into an ocs plugin requires the creation of a plugin file,
which tells OCS how to import new Agents, as well as the addition of an
entry point in the package's ``setup.py`` file.

Plugin File
-----------

The plugin file can be added anywhere in the package, i.e. ``<package>.plugin``.
The contents are simple, just a single string with the name of the package and
a dict with an entry for each Agent describing the module and its entry point.
For example here is the plugin file for the core ocs repository:

.. literalinclude:: ../../ocs/plugin.py
    :language: python

The keys of the agents dictionary should match the names of the Agents set in
the Agent and used in the SCF.

.. warning::
    Conflicting Agent names are not handled well across plugins. Use a unique
    Agent name when adding new Agents until this is improved.

Note that each Agent needs to have an entry point that can be called to run the
Agent. In the above example each Agent defines a ``main`` method that is used.
If undefined, OCS will default to trying to use ``main`` as the entry point.
Before the introduction of this plugin system this was typically handled
within the ``__main__`` block.

Package Entry Point
-------------------
After you have created the plugin file, you need to add an entry point to
``pyproject.toml`` or ``setup.py``. This will register your package for
discovery by ocs. This looks like (assuming the plugin file is called
``plugin.py`` and lives at the top level of the package):

.. tab:: pyproject.toml

    .. code-block::

        [project.entry-points.'ocs.plugins']
        <plugin name> = '<package name>.plugin'

.. tab:: setup.py

    .. code-block:: python

           entry_points={
               'ocs.plugins': [
                   '<plugin name> = <package name>.plugin',
                   ],
           },

Plugin name should typically match the package name, however the group name
must always be ``ocs.plugins`` in order for OCS to recognize the plugin. For
example, if your package was called ``my_ocs_pkg`` this would be:

.. tab:: pyproject.toml

    .. code-block::

        [project.entry-points.'ocs.plugins']
        my_ocs_pkg = 'my_ocs_pkg.plugin'

.. tab:: setup.py

    .. code-block:: python

           entry_points={
               'ocs.plugins': [
                   'my_ocs_pkg = my_ocs_pkg.plugin',
                   ],
           },

Agent Entry Point
-----------------
OCS needs to know the entry point function used to launch each Agent in your
plugin. By default ocs will try to use ``main`` as the entrypoint. If your
Agent entrypoint has a different name you must list it in ``plugin.py``. This
function must take a single parameter for passing arguments through to the
Agent. This looks something like:

.. code-block:: python

    def main(args=None):
        parser = add_agent_args()
        args = site_config.parse_args(agent_class='BarebonesAgent',
                                      parser=parser,
                                      args=args)

        agent, runner = ocs_agent.init_site_agent(args)

        barebone = BarebonesAgent(agent)

        runner.run(agent, auto_reconnect=True)

This example leaves out some other boilerplate from the Barebones Agent, but
the important part is the ``args=None`` argument to ``main()``, and passing
those args to ``site_config.parse_args()``.

Testing
-------

You should now be able to start the new Agents through ``ocs-agent-cli``.
However, if you'd like to search for the plugin more directly you can do so by
running:

.. code-block:: python

    import sys
    if sys.version_info < (3, 10):
        from importlib_metadata import entry_points
    else:
        from importlib.metadata import entry_points

    discovered_plugins = entry_points(group='ocs.plugins')
    print(discovered_plugins)
    # [EntryPoint(name='ocs', value='ocs.plugin', group='ocs.plugins')]

Deploying + Docker
------------------

Your plugin can now be deployed by installing the package with pip. It can also
be built into a Docker image, which can then be used to run all of the Agents
included in the plugin. For details on how to build a Docker image for your
plugin see :ref:`dockerizing_agent_or_plugin`.

List of OCS Plugins
-------------------

Here is a list of known OCS plugins. If you have written an OCS plugin, and
would like to include it in this list, we encourage you to submit a PR adding
it here.

* `socs <https://github.com/simonsobs/socs>`_ - The Simons Observatory OCS plugin
