CONTRIBUTING.rst, before:

===================
Contributing to OCS
===================

Branches
--------

There are two long-lived branches in OCS, ``master`` and ``develop``.
``master`` should be considered stable, and will only move forward on official
releases. ``develop`` may be unstable, and is where all development should take
place.

What this means for you, the contributor, is that you should base your feature
branches off of the latest ``develop`` branch, and pull request them into
``develop``. Detailed steps below.

Pull Requests
-------------

When opening a pull request, you should push your feature branch, and select
the ``develop`` branch as the base branch, the branch you want to merge your
feature branch into.

Releases
--------

If you are trying to issue a release of OCS you should follow these steps:

1. Open a Pull Request, comparing ``develop`` to the ``master`` base branch.
   Describe the features added for this release.
2. Make a merge commit when you merge this PR.
    * This merge commit will be what is tagged for the release.
    * ``develop`` is now one commit behind ``master`` (the merge commit)
3. Pull the latest ``master`` and ``develop`` branches to your work station.
4. Checkout ``develop``, then run ``git merge --ff-only master``, catching ``develop`` up to ``master``.
5. ``push origin develop`` to update the remote ``develop`` branch.

The ``develop`` and ``master`` branches are now aligned, and ``master`` is
ready to be released. You can use the GitHub release interface to create a new
release, copying the change log you wrote in the PR and otherwise describing the
release.

Development Guide
-----------------

Contributors should follow the recommendations made in the `SO Developer Guide`_.

.. _SO Developer Guide: https://simons1.princeton.edu/docs/so_dev_guide/html/

Commit message:

Make suggested changes from PR comments
* Fix tpyo
* Add section to README about availability of Docker images
* Clarify that releases will be done by core maintainers of the project

CONTRIBUTING.rst, after:

===================
Contributing to OCS
===================

Branches
--------

There are two long-lived branches in OCS, ``master`` and ``develop``.
``master`` should be considered stable, and will only move forward on official
releases. ``develop`` may be unstable, and is where all development should take
place.

What this means for you, the contributor, is that you should base your feature
branches off of the latest ``develop`` branch, and pull request them into
``develop``. Detailed steps below.

Pull Requests
-------------

When opening a pull request, you should push your feature branch, and select
the ``develop`` branch as the base branch, the branch you want to merge your
feature branch into.

Releases
--------

.. note::
    Releases will be issued by core maintainers of OCS.

If you are trying to issue a release of OCS you should follow these steps:

1. Open a Pull Request, comparing ``develop`` to the ``master`` base branch.
   Describe the features added for this release.
2. Make a merge commit when you merge this PR.

    * This merge commit will be what is tagged for the release.
    * ``develop`` is now one commit behind ``master`` (the merge commit)

3. Pull the latest ``master`` and ``develop`` branches to your work station.
4. Checkout ``develop``, then run ``git merge --ff-only master``, catching ``develop`` up to ``master``.
5. ``push origin develop`` to update the remote ``develop`` branch.

The ``develop`` and ``master`` branches are now aligned, and ``master`` is
ready to be released. You can use the GitHub release interface to create a new
release, copying the change log you wrote in the PR and otherwise describing the
release.

Development Guide
-----------------

Contributors should follow the recommendations made in the `SO Developer Guide`_.

.. _SO Developer Guide: https://simons1.princeton.edu/docs/so_dev_guide/html/
