docs/user/ocs_util.rst, before:

.. highlight:: bash

.. _ocs_util:

==========
ocs-util
==========

Overview
========

In many situations you might want to run OCS clients or view so3g data without 
having to install the software on your local system. The OCS Util docker is a 
general purpose utility docker which can be used to easily view data or run 
ocs clients through a jupyter notebook or a command line interface.

Setup
=====

The OCS Util docker can be setup by putting the following entry in your system's
``docker-compose.yml`` file::

  ocs-util:
    image: ocs-util:latest
    container_name: ocs-util
    environment: 
      JUPYTER_PORT: 8880
      JUPYTER_PW: password
    volumes:
      - ${OCS_CONFIG_DIR}:/config
      - /data/:/data/
    ports:
      - 8880:8880

Then on docker-compose up, the ocs-util docker will automatically start up a 
jupyter server on port 8880, with a password "password". To change the port,
you can change the ``JUPYTER_PORT`` environment variable, and change the 
``ports`` entry to expose your chosen port.

.. warning::

    It is highly recommended that you change ``JUPYTER_PW`` to something other than 
    "password", since access to this notebook will give anyone the opportunity to run 
    arbitrary code from the "ocs" user.

Usage
=====

To access the notebook, simply direct your browser to ``localhost:<port>``, where
``<port>`` is what is specified in ``JUPYTER_PORT``. It will request a password,
which is set to the value you put in ``JUPYTER_PW``.

To connect remotely, you may have to tunnel the ``JUPYTER_PORT`` through to your
local computer, with::

    $ ssh -L <port>:localhost:<port> <user>@<host>

again, replacing ``<port>``, ``<user>``, and ``<host>`` with relevant info.

.. note::
  
  You can easily see which port of an existing ocs-util container is open with 
  the `docker ps` command. When the ocs-util docker is running, the output might 
  look something like this::

    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                        NAMES
    c34c91d57f14        ocs-util:latest     "jupyter notebook /d…"   24 minutes ago      Up 24 minutes       0.0.0.0:8880->8880/tcp       ocs-util

  Under the ``PORTS`` column, the line ``0.0.0.0:8880->8880/tcp`` means that port 
  8880 has been exposed, and that is how you can reach the jupyter server.


One common way of utilizing ``ocs-util`` is by using the ``docker-exec`` command, 
which will run an executable within the docker-container. For example, to enter
a bash environment inside ``ocs-util`` you can run::

  $ docker exec -it ocs-util bash

The ``-it`` flag specifies that stdin should remain open, allowing you to interact
with the bash shell. You can also run other commands, such as ``so3g-dump``
(as soon as its developed), which will allow you to view so3g files in a human
readable format::

  $ docker exec ocs-util so3g-dump /data/path/to/file.g3

Commit message:

Clarify the permissions structure for ocs-util
Since this requires creating the ocs user, we move that information from the
Aggregator Agent page to the more general (and visible) location in the
installation instructions.

We also set and expose the same port as is recommended for use in the ocs-util
instructions. This should help users who might run the container directly,
rather than through docker-compose, else they might run into the situation
where they try to access Jupyter via the recommended port 8880, but the service
is running on the default 8888.

docs/user/ocs_util.rst, after:

.. highlight:: bash

.. _ocs_util:

==========
ocs-util
==========

Overview
========

In many situations you might want to run OCS clients or view so3g data without 
having to install the software on your local system. The ocs-util container is a 
general purpose utility docker container which can be used to easily view data
or run ocs clients through a jupyter notebook or a command line interface.

Setup
=====

The ocs-util container can be setup by putting the following entry in your system's
``docker-compose.yml`` file::

  ocs-util:
    image: ocs-util:latest
    container_name: ocs-util
    environment: 
      JUPYTER_PORT: 8880
      JUPYTER_PW: password
    volumes:
      - ${OCS_CONFIG_DIR}:/config
      - /data/:/data/
    ports:
      - 8880:8880

Then on docker-compose up, the ocs-util container will automatically start up a 
Jupyter Lab server on port 8880, with a password "password". To change the port,
you can change the ``JUPYTER_PORT`` environment variable, and change the 
``ports`` entry to expose your chosen port.

.. warning::

    It is highly recommended that you change ``JUPYTER_PW`` to something other than 
    "password", since access to this notebook will give anyone the opportunity to run 
    arbitrary code from the "ocs" user.

.. note::

    The ``/data/`` directory bind mounted to the container needs proper
    permissions for the Jupyter Lab server to write files to disk. The server runs
    as the `ocs` user and by default writes to ``/data``. To ensure proper
    permissions you should for :ref:`create_ocs_user`.

Usage
=====

To access the notebook, simply direct your browser to ``localhost:<port>``, where
``<port>`` is what is specified in ``JUPYTER_PORT``. It will request a password,
which is set to the value you put in ``JUPYTER_PW``.

To connect remotely, you may have to tunnel the ``JUPYTER_PORT`` through to your
local computer, with::

    $ ssh -L <port>:localhost:<port> <user>@<host>

again, replacing ``<port>``, ``<user>``, and ``<host>`` with relevant info.

.. note::
  
  You can easily see which port of an existing ocs-util container is open with 
  the `docker ps` command. When the ocs-util docker is running, the output might 
  look something like this::

    CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                        NAMES
    c34c91d57f14        ocs-util:latest     "jupyter notebook /d…"   24 minutes ago      Up 24 minutes       0.0.0.0:8880->8880/tcp       ocs-util

  Under the ``PORTS`` column, the line ``0.0.0.0:8880->8880/tcp`` means that port 
  8880 has been exposed, and that is how you can reach the jupyter server.


One common way of utilizing ``ocs-util`` is by using the ``docker-exec`` command, 
which will run an executable within the docker-container. For example, to enter
a bash environment inside ``ocs-util`` you can run::

  $ docker exec -it ocs-util bash

The ``-it`` flag specifies that stdin should remain open, allowing you to interact
with the bash shell. You can also run other commands, such as ``so3g-dump``
(as soon as its developed), which will allow you to view so3g files in a human
readable format::

  $ docker exec ocs-util so3g-dump /data/path/to/file.g3
