tests/README.rst, before:

Tests
-----
We use pytest as our test runner for OCS. To run all of the tests, from within
this ``tests/`` directory, run pytest::

  python3 -m pytest

This will run every test, which includes both unit and integration tests. The
unit tests will run quickly, however the integration test will take some time,
and might require some first time setup.

Unit Tests
``````````
The unit tests are built to run quickly and test functionality of individual
parts of the OCS library. These are run automatically on every commit to a
branch/PR on github, using Github Actions. However, you might want to run them
locally when updating or adding to OCS for faster feedback. To run only the
unit tests run::

  python3 -m pytest -m 'not integtest'

This ``-m 'not integtest'`` argument skips all tests marked as integration
tests, leaving just the unit tests.

Integration Tests
`````````````````
These tests are built to test the running OCS system, and as such need several
running components. This includes a crossbar server and each core OCS
Agent. In order to run these in an isolated environment we make use of Docker
and Docker Compose. This includes use of the pytest plugin,
pytest-docker-compose.

For each integration test, a set of Docker containers is started and interacted
with. Startup and shutdown of these containers can increase the testing time.
Additionally, the types of tests this includes generally include checking
behavior after some interactions with the system, which can also take some
time. As such you might be interested in running just a single test that you
are working on. You can do so with::

  python3 -m pytest -k <function name of test you are running>

This should deselect all other tests and run the test of interest. You can run
all integration tests with::

  python3 -m pytest -m integtest

Code Coverage
`````````````
Code coverage reports can be produced with the ``--cov`` flag::

  python3 -m pytest -m 'not integtest' --cov=ocs

These results are also published to `coveralls`_.

.. note::
    Code coverage for the integration tests is a bit tricky with things running
    in containers, and so is not accurately reflected in these reports.

.. _coveralls: https://coveralls.io/github/simonsobs/ocs

Commit message:

Add section in testing docs on rapid test turnaround
Also change the method for getting pwd in the integration test.

tests/README.rst, after:

Tests
-----
We use pytest as our test runner for OCS. To run all of the tests, from within
this ``tests/`` directory, run pytest::

  python3 -m pytest

This will run every test, which includes both unit and integration tests. The
unit tests will run quickly, however the integration test will take some time,
and might require some first time setup.

Unit Tests
``````````
The unit tests are built to run quickly and test functionality of individual
parts of the OCS library. These are run automatically on every commit to a
branch/PR on github, using Github Actions. However, you might want to run them
locally when updating or adding to OCS for faster feedback. To run only the
unit tests run::

  python3 -m pytest -m 'not integtest'

This ``-m 'not integtest'`` argument skips all tests marked as integration
tests, leaving just the unit tests.

Integration Tests
`````````````````
These tests are built to test the running OCS system, and as such need several
running components. This includes a crossbar server and each core OCS
Agent. In order to run these in an isolated environment we make use of Docker
and Docker Compose. This includes use of the pytest plugin,
pytest-docker-compose.

For each integration test, a set of Docker containers is started and interacted
with. Startup and shutdown of these containers can increase the testing time.
Additionally, the types of tests this includes generally include checking
behavior after some interactions with the system, which can also take some
time. As such you might be interested in running just a single test that you
are working on. You can do so with::

  python3 -m pytest -k <function name of test you are running>

This should deselect all other tests and run the test of interest. You can run
all integration tests with::

  python3 -m pytest -m integtest

Reducing Turnaround Time in Testing
...................................
Since the integration tests depend on docker containers you need to have the
docker images built prior to running the tests. You can build all of the docker
images from the root of the ocs repo::

  $ docker-compose build

However, if you're making changes to the core of OCS, having to rebuild all
images with every change prior to running the tests quickly becomes time
consuming. To avoid having to do the rebuild, you can mount the local copy of
ocs over the one in the container, located at ``/app/ocs/``. To do this, add a
new volume to the docker-compose file in this tests directory for the
Agent/container you are working on. For example, in the fake-data-agent::

  fake-data1:
    image: ocs-fake-data-agent
    container_name: "fake-data-agent"
    hostname: ocs-docker
    environment:
      - LOGLEVEL=debug
    volumes:
      - ./default.yaml:/config/default.yaml:ro
      - /home/user/git/ocs/:/app/ocs/
    command:
      - "--instance-id=fake-data1"
      - "--site-hub=ws://crossbar:8001/ws"
      - "--site-http=http://crossbar:8001/call"

Code Coverage
`````````````
Code coverage reports can be produced with the ``--cov`` flag::

  python3 -m pytest -m 'not integtest' --cov=ocs

These results are also published to `coveralls`_.

.. note::
    Code coverage for the integration tests is a bit tricky with things running
    in containers, and so is not accurately reflected in these reports.

.. _coveralls: https://coveralls.io/github/simonsobs/ocs
