docs/api.rst, before:

API
===

This page contains the auto-generated documentation for the ocs package.

ocs.base
--------

.. automodule:: ocs.base
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.client_http
---------------

.. automodule:: ocs.client_http
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.client_t
------------

.. automodule:: ocs.client_t
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.client_wampy
----------------

.. automodule:: ocs.client_wampy
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.matched_client
------------------

.. automodule:: ocs.matched_client
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.ocs_agent
-------------

.. automodule:: ocs.ocs_agent
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.ocs_feed
------------

.. automodule:: ocs.ocs_feed
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.ocs_twisted
---------------

.. automodule:: ocs.ocs_twisted
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.ocs_widgets
---------------

.. automodule:: ocs.ocs_widgets
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.site_config
---------------

.. automodule:: ocs.site_config
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

Commit message:

Add ocs.agent.aggregator to API docs and fix errors

docs/api.rst, after:

API
===

This page contains the auto-generated documentation for the ocs package.

agent
-----

The ``agent/`` directory contains code that supports particular OCS Agents.
Having this code in the ocs library facilitates testing.

agent.aggregator
````````````````

.. automodule:: ocs.agent.aggregator
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.base
--------

.. automodule:: ocs.base
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.client_http
---------------

.. automodule:: ocs.client_http
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.client_t
------------

.. automodule:: ocs.client_t
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.client_wampy
----------------

.. automodule:: ocs.client_wampy
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.matched_client
------------------

.. automodule:: ocs.matched_client
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.ocs_agent
-------------

.. automodule:: ocs.ocs_agent
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.ocs_feed
------------

.. automodule:: ocs.ocs_feed
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.ocs_twisted
---------------

.. automodule:: ocs.ocs_twisted
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.ocs_widgets
---------------

.. automodule:: ocs.ocs_widgets
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

ocs.site_config
---------------

.. automodule:: ocs.site_config
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:
